- [Instructor] One of the biggest concerns
that some organizations have when moving
to Spring Boot is how do they configure
the servlet container that their application is running in.
Many of them have specific requirements on how
communications are to operate over a web enabled network.
And as such configuring Tomcat is critical
in moving into the Spring Boot world.
Now, one of the areas that you can configure is
in the servlets, filters, and listeners themselves.
Now by default Spring Boot will give you a servlet
that responds at the context route
and is auto configured with many of the defaults
that we've come to love.
At least those of us that use Spring Boot a lot.
That being said, if you want to add your own servlet,
or your own filter, or your own listeners
then there's a very simple way to do that.
And that's to configure the servlets, filters,
and listeners as beans.
Now, you can do that in one of two ways.
The first is to go into one of your configuration classes
or create one and annotate a method
with at bean that serves one of these objects.
The other way is to annotate the actual class file
with that web servlet, at web filter, or at web listener,
depending on the use, and allow it to be component scanned
and put into the embedded container.
And this is a great time
for me to mention that's the Spring Boot application,
at least a web enabled one,
you actually have several application contexts.
One of which is specific to the embedded Tomcat itself.
Spring Boot knows that these types of objects,
servlets, filters, and listeners
belong in the embedded container.
In addition, if you want to create
a separate servlet context,
you can do that using the ServletContextInitializer.
But none of that is very common
other than the filters use for security purposes.
And there's a much better way to do that
with Spring security.
The easiest way to configure your embedded Tomcat
is through the use of properties.
And indeed, we've already been doing that
through the server.port property.
Now there's lots of properties
for dealing with the server itself,
such as the address that it's bound to,
the port, and the default context path.
But you also have access to the way that session
is managed through cookies, time-outs,
persistence of those sessions.
All of that can be configured through properties.
The default error page,
and I'm not talking about the web error page.
The server error page can be configured
through properties as well.
Now a full list of these properties is actually in the code.
If you go to
orb.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.web.serverproperties.
That class actually is a placeholder
for all of the property files that you can set
and you can take a look at them and see what you can modify.
Compression is another very common thing that
people want to modify on a default Spring Boot application.
You can easily turn compression on
by using the server.compression.enabled property
and set its value to true.
By default all response types that are 2,048 bytes
or more will be compressed if this property is set to true.
But of course, there's a property that you can use
to modify that value.
Also by default there's four MIME types
that will be compressed if they exceed this limit.
Text/html, text/xml, text/plain, and text/css
are the default MIME types to be compressed.
If you want to compress other ones, guess what?
There's a property for that as well.
Now, by and large, the single most common way
to change the embedded servlet container
is to migrate it from a standard HTTP to a TLS flavor.
This is actually a requirement for many shops
for all web traffic that they leverage TLS
and rightfully so.
At this point in time,
everything should be encrypted over the internet.
Now there is native support via,
as you might guess, property management.
And as I said this is the most common
embedded servlet change.
Now, one thing to note,
this requires a keystore to be available
to your application.
As such it also means that there's going to be a password
for the keystore, and it has to be available
to your application via properties or environment variables.
So if you don't have something
like a secret manager that connects
to your runtime used for storing all of your credentials
any developer that has access
to your source control management
or SCM potentially has access
to all of the contents of the keystore.
So be very careful when dealing with those passwords.
The spring website has lots of demos around all
of these topics and it's really very good documentation.
So if any of these fits your needs
and you need more specifics on how to do them
I suggest that you go and dig in there.